Outline the Jason structure and create the document please. 
Look at the depth levels. Plan and tell me what's next
OK. Look at the transcript analysis markdown file which contains the prompt and tell me how it needs to be updated. 
Show me how the prompt needs to be updated
This isn't what I want. I've already set up a new branch called V3 and I've pushed the whole code base to it. I just want to check whether the local code base and the new branch V3 are In Sync. That's all. 
There must be a simpler way to just check if they're In Sync. 
Now look at the orchestration which is done in assessment.Js and the scoring which is done in scoring.Js. And let me know what the next steps are. 
So looking at orchestration I can see that we create profile in assessment dot JS which suggests that we need to update the template in CMO profile dot JS can you confirm that? 
OK, so we've looked at the CMO profile template. There's also the two reporting templates which are in reports dot JS. Can you ensure that they are updated please
Do we have everything we need now to update scoring dot JS?
Create a backup to scoring JS before we start this because it's quite a big change.
Go ahead and make the scoring dot JS changes please
Can you ensure that this? The scoring JS now is past the right information from profile Cmoprofile.Js. And that everything is in place for its generate reports
The profile template is defined in CMO profile JS and both report templates are defined in reports. 
Refer to the prompt. Umm. Refer to open AI, JS. Refer to the orchestration assessment JS and to the algorithm in scoring JS in order to help define the pr
Can you confirm that we're no longer using the old depth levels or the depth weights which are redundant and we've got clear separation of depth assessment? Based on the on the one four scale and skills scoring
We need to separate depth and reported depth. Reported depth is based on the assessment of the depth level. Death is the number that is expected
Depth is introduced to scoring JS umm by the jason file called depth levels. 
Yes, this is good, but can I clarify that there shouldn't be depth introduced in the prompt? Depth is expected depth depth which is introduced from depth levels dot jason. Reported depth is the only thing I think that should come from the prompt. Can you clarify
Also, is it problematic that? The depth levels effectively work in reverse that. Mean that level one is the highest and level 4 is the lowest. Is that factored in when we calculate depth level? There should be no penalty. For a for a candidate who's reported, depth exceeds that. Of the expected.
He's right. Please write a detailed scoring spec that captures how we calculate skill scores and stage weights and how we do the depth assessment. And adjust the depth score save. This as a new file called algorithm.Md in the docs directory. 