Transcript 9 
Building a Team from Scratch: Initial Priorities (0:00)
Key Elements in the Marketing Audit (12:00)
Hiring for Potential and Collaboration (12:13)
Setting Team Expectations and Goals (13:26)
Aligning Marketing and Sales (18:05)
Educating Senior Stakeholders (25:01)
Talent Development and Recognition (28:16)
Identifying and Nurturing High Potential (35:00)
Retaining Talent and Building Relationships (38:19)
Final Thoughts and Future Plans (44:50)

0:00  
Okay with you absolutely. So let me just go to one second. So the first one was building.

0:13  
I love, I love what you're doing. Because I'm like, I'm, although I'm, I'm I, yeah, I suppose maybe I'm sort of more the senior leader. Yeah, I do think that, yeah, for me, I never stopped learning. So like, what I'm going to give you today is, is my little, you know, view of the world, but brilliant. Really want to know and hear from what

0:33  
other people said. Yeah. So it's been so interesting, honestly, it's been really, really eye opening. And the more conversations that I've had and the different perspectives that I've heard, I feel like I've been on a course as well. Yeah, so, but it's more exciting now that I'm coming to the conclusion of all the conversations, because then I can get to go back over everything and look at it all again and dissect that information and and so, yeah, it's, honestly, it's been really, really good, and I'm just super happy that you're happy to share your insights as well. So really appreciate that. Okay, so the first area then, so you said building from scratch, right? Yeah. So when it comes to building from scratch, what would you say are the starting priorities, like, where do you start, and how would you kind of outline those most important things, I guess, to consider.

1:27  
Yeah, so one of the most kind of frequent questions that I get asked about when it comes to kind of starting building a team from scratch is like, who would be your first hire? That's normally where people go, right where, if you were building a team from scratch. You know, thinking about it now, who would be your first hire? And years ago, I must admit, kind of in my youth, I'd probably be more looking towards, oh, okay, you know, strategically, like, what functional area of marketing? Yeah, better hires a content person first, or maybe like an all rounder. But actually, my answer now as a senior leader is it varies. I know that's not a simple answer, but yeah, it really kind of varies. Because I think what I'm learnt, what I've learned over the years, is that it really depends. It's tied back to what we're going to talk about later as well, which is the company objectives. The first thing that I would do would be to go in there and almost do, like a bit of an audit, yeah, you know, of the kind of marketing function, if there is one there, or all these companies that say that they're not doing marketing, they are. Everyone's always doing some form of, yes, what you're doing now, actually, is, is marketing. So, yeah, everyone's doing something. So do like an audit of marketing. Look at, then where, what the company goals are, and where they want to to go. And then obviously think about, then, what type of person that we need that kind of fits that. So to give you kind of a good example of that I was thinking about, there was one company that I worked for before, for example, where their sales cycles were were quite long and they, they really needed somebody that was, they really needed a lot kind of going on on the on the PR front, for example, yeah. But they needed somebody to be raising the kind of the brand awareness, to be putting them out, you know, and in front of all of those media companies getting lots of kind of visibility with with content and that sort of thing. They didn't need somebody that was going to come in and start working on the digital front, you know, doing loads of performance related stuff that just wouldn't have worked. They needed somebody to really support the kind of the like, I say, and increase the brand awareness. So for them, the the natural hire was the PR person. But that's, yeah, it's very, very different. You know, for every company, you just have to go and do the audit, find out what's kind of like, missing, I suppose, and then hire, making sure that you're aligning with the company goals.

3:53  
So in that audit, like, what are the key things that you're trying to identify there? Could you like, elaborate on that?

3:58  
Yeah, so in the audit you're looking for, I'm a, I'm a massive fan of kind of being, like, very data driven. So when I'm looking at the audit, I'm looking first of all like, say, what marketing that they've done already, what's kind of showing signs of working. For example, you know what? What's kind of working? You're looking at things like competitors, obviously, and what they're doing and what's working for them, and trying to do a little bit of comparison. But like I said, it's really kind of thinking about what the goals of the company aspirations are for the next, like 135, years, where they kind of want to be. So to give you an example of that, then, if there is a company that are a certain point where they want to go for a next round of funding, depending on what round of funding it is, whether it's Series A, Series B, there are different things that the you know, whether it's VCs or, you know, investors that they're looking for, there are different things that they look for, so a growth kind of, you know. Startup looking for Vc, Vc funding. They want to see product market fit and that pipeline. So there you've got to go, like, really hard, like, demand generation and lead generation. So you need somebody that's coming in with, with that sort of frame of mind, you know, having that kind of, like, PR person in there that's talking about, oh, well, you know, we had so many kind of, you know, clicks or views on the press release, it's not going to cut it right with VCs.

5:27  
So essentially, what you're saying is, there's no it's definitely not a one shoe fits all. And you need to go in and do an audit and establish what the needs and the challenges are of the business, and then tailor the team around that, essentially, and it could be different in every every business, basically, that you go in dependent on where they are in their journey and where they're trying to get to

5:51  
exactly, exactly. And I think that's it's like a little bit of it's taken me a while as a senior leader to come to terms with that, because I feel like marketing people when they get hired, especially marketing sort of leaders, like senior people, they get hired based on their experience. Yeah, you think about that, they're almost expected to walk you through the door with a bunch of answers. Yeah, we don't, we don't have answers. And I'm, I've come to terms with that now I don't have answers. I have a toolbox that I will with to fix a load of problems, but I need to know what the problems are, so I know what tool is best

6:27  
to work with. If that makes sense. Yeah, that does. And it's interesting, isn't it, because if you think about it, say, say, you have, like, a somebody who's come up through like demand generation, and then they've become a marketing director, but their career, they've just happened to be hired by the market before they were a marketing director, saying they were happened to be hired by a marketing director as the next hire. On a couple of occasions, they might assume that that's just the rule. Then, do you know what I mean, that they must. They might assume that, okay, the first hire that I should make when I'm a marketing director is somebody in demand generation, because that's what's always happened in their career. So it's so important to realize that actually, just because that's what's happened in your previous businesses doesn't mean that's actually going to be right for the business that you're going into next. I think that audit pieces is so it's so key. Have you done have you been in a scenario where you've not done it like that? Do you know what I mean, where you've been maybe burnt, or you've realized, actually, I should have gone in a different direction here.

7:25  
Yeah, I have. So I can give two examples, actually, like, you know, years ago, there was one example where I had that kind of textbook marketing structure kind of in my head, of like, when I've got to go into this company and I've got to hire a content person, a PR person, you know, someone to do the camp, you know, I mean, like, all the textbooks sort of like, to make sure almost like every bases are covered. Yeah, it didn't do was think about what I just said. It's like, well, what's the priority? Like, what's the needs of the business? And that ended up going a little bit kind of like pear shaped, because what happened, what some of the hires that I had first of all in the business, just because of it takes a lot to hire, like, especially a whole new team of, like, I don't know, eight people starting team, the hires that I got in first weren't the ones that the business really needed. It ended up resulting in a lack of confidence in me, yeah, because, you know, I'm in my head, I'm like, but I'm getting there honestly, see the next few hires, like I'm doing it all, trying to do it all together, and the next year along, and yeah, it kind of was really frustrating, and I knew what I'd done wrong after a while. And then the second example has just left my head. Oh, yeah. So the second example, this is kind of another point actually, that I was going to make, and that is that when you are building out a team like from scratch, one of the other priorities, I think that's really, really key, is looking for people that that are that are willing to get their hands dirty and, you know, to sort of think outside the box a little bit and try their hands at new things. So an example of that is, like, you know, maybe getting, like, a content person that doesn't mind they've never done like video production before or something like that, like having a little bit of a dabble with, yeah, and creating some like imagery and everything, like just being a bit diverse, not just doing like the copywriting. And I have made that mistake in the past where I've sort of thought, right, okay, I've done my audit. I know that we really need to go hard in with the content. And I need someone that's going to smash out a bunch of like blog, blog, blog, like Article, Article, Article, and you forget, actually, that, you know, again, I It feels so stupid. Now you're looking back, I'm like, it feels really obvious, but you forget that there is a bunch of other sort of assets and things that need to be created alongside that you just go down, like, one, you know, one row, and the person that I've hired didn't have that diversity. They were pure. Copywriter. And then I had to, then think, Oh, well, okay, do we need to hire like a designer as well then, or like a video a video editor and, oh, God, like the other tip is for a priority is just make sure, when you're building teams from scratch, the initial ones that you're looking for people that are willing to kind of like try new things and get their hands dirty.

10:20  
Yeah, and yeah, experiment and things as well. And what's I gonna ask you, how do you determine, like, the level that you hire at in that kind of, like first team, whether you're like, okay, am I going for like, a manager or a senior manager or head of etc?

10:40  
Tone again, I'm going to it sounds like a cop out, right? But it totally depends on the objectives of the business, how aggressive they are. So for example, that's why it's so so important in those first sort of few months to sit down with the CEO, the founders, whoever it is, the board, and really understand what that growth journey looks like, yeah, the really aggressive growth journey, and you've got some really aggressive sales targets that you're hitting in the first year. You don't have time to take on a more junior person, yeah, and kind of get through and ramp up. You need someone that could come in with new ideas and hit the ground, sort of running, whereas, if, if you're looking at, yeah, if the if the growth is a little bit kind of like slower, or is different, you're going along a different sort of path, then you might be able to afford to take on someone Junior and through them. To be honest, I think, if I'm totally honest, like my first hire, I don't know whether this is whether I should say the river is pretty cool coming from me. Maybe this could be an anonymous quote, but the my first hire I'm always thinking about is my number two. Yeah, nice with you. The reason I'm worried about putting that in writing against My name is, I have a team at the moment. And yeah, it looks a bit they'll all be kind of wondering, oh, Lucy said she's looking for a number two. Yeah, that's higher. I'm always looking for a number two, because I need somebody that I can, you know if the company, if we are growing, if we are a growth company, and we're looking for to grow the teams kind of quite quickly. I'm looking for somebody that can step up into that, like head of marketing role, quite quickly. So, yeah, I'm looking for that kind of potential. Of, are they willing to sort of, you know, are they quite hungry, you know, career driven themselves, to grow into a more like leadership role? Is

12:33  
that something you often think about, like hiring for potential, as opposed to someone who's, I guess, been there and done that, but rather somebody who, that's their like trajectory,

12:41  
yeah, relating, closely related to that comment that I made earlier, about depending on how aggressive the targets are and that thing, but 100% I'm, yeah, that is something I'm personally very passionate about, is for potential I'm looking for. First of all, I'm always looking for people cleverer than me, like I want to be the dumbest person in the room, like I want people that are filling that kind of gap, yeah, challenge me and say no, Lucy, like I've got ideas. I've got ways that we could do it. How about we do it like this? I'm like, my god, I never thought about that. Like they're the people, that's the people I'm always looking for. But then for me, I always want to grow those people into something bigger, you know, the next lead, the leader of tomorrow. Yeah,

13:25  
and have you over the years, kind of fine tuned a way to, like, set, like, those initial expectations with that newly built team that you've kind of just on boarded, essentially, what types of expectations, goals and expectations in terms of what you know, the marketing your team is trying to achieve against the business goals? Yeah?

13:48  
Oh my goodness, yeah. That's a, that's a big question, kind of, in many ways, I suppose it's sort of, now we're coming on to the, sort of, the alignment with the company objectives. There's different things, right? So, there's, there's, I don't know, there's a more eloquent way of saying this. Maybe you can help me out when you write it up. But I always say with marketing is that you've got the shit we care about and shit they care about, they is the, is kind of the business and the, unlike the board, for example, the shit that they care about is the, you know, those like the KPIs, basically, like the obviously, the leads that you're generating, how we're tracking, what revenue contribution marketing are giving, and, you know, all of those sorts of things. And then there's the shit we care about, which is the performance against those marketing channels. Yeah, and we use those performance against the marketing channels to make our marketing better, like, how much to define our marketing strategy. So that's one of the things actually, that I always try and sort of like explain to my teams. First of all is that, you know, we've got to take people on a journey. There's a story here. There's the shit we care about, the shit they care about, and we need to do the translation, kind of like both ways. Yeah, and. And I think that really helps to teams to understand the difference, like, between the goals, like it's going to have our goals of, like, increasing the website visitors, or the number of LinkedIn followers, or, you know, those sorts of things, you know, the come, how do we align that to the company goals? It helps you to make that connect those dots, and to tell you, and do you, yeah,

15:24  
no, that that does. And do you kind of, like, give those goals to the people within your team? Or do you kind of give them, like, the this is the overarching and get them to develop some of their how you know their goals, if that makes sense, or their KPIs all about

15:38  
collaboration, like, literally, it's although. So when the what, what I would do is, after I've done that, going back to kind of the start with the priority, so after I've done that kind of analysis, initial analysis, of the marketing, kind of the situation, like, yeah, moment, the next thing I would do is kind of have a think, high level about what the strategy would be, and then the team structure, and I'd say, This is what the team I think should look like today to hit our goals, and then this is what they should look like in a year's time, three years time, that sort of thing. So I do that for a couple of reasons. One, because it helps the business obviously understand, you know, what resources are needed like all along the way. It aligns the team with the strategy. But then the second thing to answer your question is, it helps the team then, because I can put that in front of the team that structure and say to them, this is like, who's accountable for what? So everyone is accountable for their you know, their thing. They've got something that they can wrap their arms around and say, this is this is mine. However, with marketing, you've always got people jumping into each other's camps, like, you can't do anything alone, right? Yeah, that's so true. Content. Person can create content, but they need the campaign manager to come in to help them to distribute that content out. You know, there's everybody's jumping into each other's camps. So that's what I think is really key for that kind of, the collaboration and the setting the goals, is that first of all, you put that structure up of the team and say, here's what you're accountable for. The next level then is that you say, Okay, you're accountable for this, but we've all got to kind of work together and then work for examples, like on a day to day basis of how that happens, they suddenly start be like, Oh, yeah. But then what happens is, you, you sit down, you say, right now we've got this whole collaboration thing going on. Everyone's jumping each other into each other's camps, and they don't, they're not territorial. It's not, yeah, you know, they're bothered about it. Now we can sit down in the room and say, Right guys, like, how can we, how can we make this better? Like, what do we do to whatever the goals are to do this or to do this, right? How can we set ourselves some kind of, like goals, and then maybe some stretch goals as well, like, you know? So that's kind of how I work with the team. Everything is, like, really super collaborative, and I find that's the way to get people, kind of, like on the bus with you, rather than me just setting goals and saying,

18:00  
yeah, definitely, definitely, that's that. That's what I've gathered throughout this whole series, as well. Like, rather than that kind of like dictator, like somebody who's more collaborative and gives people more autonomy as well to and ownership over things, if they're having that input too. And what is it going to ask you? So what about in terms of alignment across the different departments? Because obviously, you just spoke there about developing that, developing that within your team. But what about, how do you ensure alignment between marketing and sales, or marketing and the rest of the business? Essentially,

18:39  
yeah, oh, I love this topic. So I call it marketing. I'm really big on kind of like the sales. It's my I sit more on the commercial side of marketing, as you probably Yeah, but yeah, not so much the kind of the brand side, yeah, the demand gen, lead gen, show me the money sort of marketing person. So for me, the first thing I do when I go into the business is to make that kind of connection, or start to build that relationship with sales. Yeah. But then here's the thing, right? You can marketing. Can kind of sit there and say, you know, we can preach till you know, the you know, like, whatever, the people are deaf about being you can't live sales, you know, without us, basically, like, you know, we can say it and say it and say it, and they just don't believe it, because they're salespeople, and they think about and sell and do their own thing. You've got to show it. You've got to take them on the journey with you. So I have exactly the same approach for for sales in that kind of collaborative like sense. So what I would do is I would sit down with them first. And it's quite hard, because the first sort of few months are normally a little bit free gritted teeth, where you're like, just having to kind of sit and listen and yes, okay, we know marketing are here just to be your servants. Of course we are. But then the more you kind of like work with them, and the more you. Kind of then show them, you know, oh, there's plenty. Okay, well, that leads you're working on. You do realize that actually they consumed this content and did this and then they filled in that form on the site, and actually that's what's made them a really good deal. And so I was like, Ah, okay, yeah. Like, so yeah. And that's where I find it. The magic kind of really starts to happen, because then what you do is you, then, as a team, sales and marketing become the revenue goal setters, not the other way around, yeah. But the goal, you know, the goals are coming, obviously, from the, you know, the revenue, the growth targets that we need to grow the company. But then actually having sales and marketing coming together and saying, well, actually working together collaboratively, like, collaboratively, this is what we believe that we can, like, achieve. Yeah, you know, it's like, wow. Like, you've done my job for me. This is amazing. Like, thank you.

20:54  
Have you been in an environment previously where you hadn't learned to do it like that yet? Like, what was the impact of that, yeah? Um, I'd

21:04  
say that what ends up happening is, this is a lot of, yeah, kind of, I suppose, like my early career and my frustrations was that you end up with, with silos, basically, yeah, you know, everybody is just, like marketing become that MQL, you know, generating MQL for the sake of numbers and like, chocolate fence and and then that's just, you end up feeling you're not. Nobody in marketing has ever got the job satisfaction then, because, you know, sales are just, you know, talking all the time about how, you know, marketing doesn't, oh, you've had to explain it. You can't. Marketing can't see the contribution that they're making towards the company targets. Because for them, all they're doing is generating leads and then chucking them over the fence, and they're not knowing whether it actually converts into a deal and then brings revenue in for the company. So there's no like motivation there. There's no connection between like marketing and and the

21:57  
company growth. Yeah, I hear from a lot of people that I speak to, especially senior leaders, that one of the biggest challenges for them is when they go into or either going into a business or being in a business that doesn't understand the value of marketing and what the senior stakeholders in that business, what their understanding of what Marketing is or isn't has a big impact on their ability to like, execute their goals. And some people have spoken around like having to like market marketing, essentially, is that something that you've experienced before? And how do you do that every time?

22:35  
And it's, it's tough. So actually, I'm, I'm starting my own I'm starting a podcast. Cool. Yeah, it's, I'm launching it in next month, actually. So I've recorded about six episodes so far. I'm getting, like, the little backlog going, Yeah, called cmo therapy.

22:51  
Wow, that sounds so good. Reason

22:55  
is, is because of, I'll be honest, like it's one of the biggest things is, is this topic now that we're that we're talking about, and it is the fact that marketing has to kind of do that educational like justification piece. Every single company that I go into, I have to do that being a marketing leader is is a lonely place. Yeah, it's all kind of a bit more sort of junior, and you're reporting into a CMO or a VP of Marketing, you've got that person to bounce your ideas off of. What you don't realize is that that person has to go into, like, the boardroom or the senior management meeting and kind of, you know, fight the battle, not just for you, but for, you know, for marketing, yeah, and you've got no one else in your corner, because no one else really understands it. But yeah, it's really, really tough. It's really tough. And it happens, yeah, it's every single company. Every single company. It's always a really, really big deal. You you can start to ask questions. You do get a good sense, and I do this as part of the interview process. And when I'm looking at a company to join, like I'm looking for signs or signals flags, yeah, as to how supportive they are of marketing. It's fine that they don't get it. That's why they're hiring me. Yeah, like, I get that, but they need to have kind of an open mind and be willing to kind of listen, basically, but, but it is tough. It is really tough. But that's why I have that whole I'm very, like, data driven. I'm always about, you know, kind of getting sort of down and dirty with the numbers, because numbers are what the language the

24:31  
founders speak. Yeah. So do you find that when you're equipped with that kind of information, it's easier to get that kind of buy in?

24:38  
Not just easier, it's, a necessity, yeah? Like, great. You can't, you can't. No marketing leader can. This is going to sound really bold, like, I don't think a marketing leader can be a marketing leader without, without the numbers, yeah, without the being able to, kind of like, show the value. So I one podcast, actually, I'm going to steal this, but I'm being. Honest about it. I'm not just going to palm it off as my own. I did a podcast recording yesterday with a CMO. Yeah. The podcast was called when, when marketing met finance and, and it was about kind of talking the language of like the CFO. And she said something to me was, it was just gold. I love it. And she said, Go and sit down like marketing leaders, when they first join a business, they should go and sit down with the CFO and say to them, Look, half of what I do is going to be measurable, right? So there's, you know, there's a lot that I can attribute back to the or up to the revenue. Half of what I do is is not easily measurable, or maybe even not measurable at all. But what I want to do is make you aware of that half, and let's kind of like, work together on how we can tell a story around it. And I love that, like, sit down straight away, don't be like, ashamed or afraid. Yeah, 50% of what we do isn't measurable because it's about creating kind of that brand awareness. But sit down, make the CFO your friend, or the finance leader your friend, your best mate in the very early days, and just have that really honest conversation. I don't know how to measure this. Help me? Can we tell a story? Because that CFO has got to go back into you know, as well, and sort of advocate for you. So, yeah, I like that.

26:25  
I've never heard that before. That's definitely a good one, and I bet that would be my music to the CFOs ears, if somebody had started within the marketing and were having those conversations immediately, I imagine that's not typically, the conversations that take place straight away.

26:39  
I'll tell you what happens every single time. What typically is that you go and sit in the boardroom and you present all of your numbers, and all of your numbers are the stuff that we can easily attribute. And then somebody asked the question, Well, what about the other? Or what about this? And immediately, and I can feel it now, the hairs on my arms are stand up. We go into like, this defensive mode, when the shackles, like, we go into this kind of defensive mode, and then that's not an environment that you want, and no one's going to gain from that. So I think heading that off early with that discussion with the finance person is a really interesting way to go. I think, yeah,

27:18  
definitely, definitely, I'm looking forward to seeing your podcast series. It sounds really good. I just highlighted that one as well.

27:26  
I love it. I'm so big on kind of, like, on, like, mentoring. But I call it, like reverse mentoring. So I had this, this guy that I was talking to for a long time, like we were, we were talking for like, a couple of years, and we met at an event, and then we just had, and I love these natural mentorship, yeah, like relationships, and we had all these, like, regular conversations. And then one day, after a couple of years, he said to me, Lucy, you're just the best mentor. And, like, literally, I think I went bright red, like, it nearly floored me, because I've got lots of, like, mentor relationships that are quite like, formal. But I thought he was mentoring me. Like, yeah, but that's what these podcasts are like, I feel like they're like, this sort of reverse mentorship. I love it.

28:11  
Yeah, no, I know exactly what you mean. Like, kind of what I was talking about earlier, when I was saying, I feel like I've been on a course and, like, learning so much from people just by having these conversations on that point, it kind of brings me on to the next topic, then, in terms of, like mentoring, but more around, like talent development. Like, over the years, what approaches have you kind of developed when it comes to I should have used it more. What approaches have you learned when it comes to talent development? And, yeah, like, in order to, you know, get that high performance out of people, yeah,

28:46  
yeah. Okay. So I had to really think about this one about, kind of, what the kind of the right words to use about, yeah, not with three. So there's, it's the 3c so it's culture, communication and collaboration. I've covered a couple of them anyway, just naturally through talking the culture. One is a really interesting one, because I feel like, I mean, it's not just with the kind of the department, with marketing in particular, this needs to be like a company wide thing, but it's about making sure that there is a culture of this kind of proactive, like learning, encouraging people to learn all the time. So, you know, I think a lot of people sort of or not, a lot, I've seen people in the past that have that have that feeling that they're almost like, done. You know, it's like, okay, I know what. I know. I'm an expert in this, and I don't think anyone is ever finished. No one's ever done. So just making sure that, I think, you create that culture of, like, wanting to learn all the time and sort of try and be the best that you can be all the time. How

29:48  
do you create that, though? Are you talking about doing like, that kind of stuff for yourself? Are you recommending things to other people, or

29:56  
do you know the best way that I do it, and this is what I love. And. This. I don't say this out loud, but it's something that I sort of do in the back. Yeah. So learning, what's the best way that you learn? You fuck up? Yeah? You make mistakes. Yeah. So I think it's the it's about making people not proud of mistakes. But what's the word? Like feeling like they can having that inclusive, like environment where they can own up and say, I've made a mistake. Yeah? I think, like, it's not just that person making a mistake. Everyone learns from that mistake. Yeah? So if we've got that kind of collaborative environment, people are making mistakes, but we're all kind of like sharing it, yeah? See this, I have never done this, but I thought it was quite a funny idea. But they said in an organization they worked in before that they had fuck up Fridays.

30:47  
Oh my god, I love that.

30:50  
Everyone comes onto the call and says, here's where I fucked up this week. Like, you know, oh my God, that's brilliant. But honestly, I I've never when I think back to more recently as a leader, I think back to more recently as a leader, and thinking about my teams, I can hand on heart tell you that my teams would never be afraid to say, Lucy, I fucked up like I've made a mistake, And I love that isn't that amazing. I

31:22  
have to steal that one. That's so good.

31:25  
That's the first one. Is the culture making mistakes and allowing people to make mistakes, because that is, honestly how we learn. It's a good thing. If you're doing the same thing over and over again, that's a different story. But

31:37  
every Friday,

31:40  
yeah, I did it again. Same thing. Guys like, you're

31:43  
not going to believe this.

31:46  
No, no, up and learn. Yeah. Second one about communication is, I think it's the storytelling thing. Goes back to what I was saying earlier. So marketers, we have to be really good at telling stories, not even if you're not in a content role or a PR role or something that's related to kind of like words and whatever. If you're a numbers in a performance marketing performance role, helping that person to develop by helping them tell stories about their numbers and how what the performance of their function is, I think, is absolutely key. So communication is really important, and that is for me, around, like storytelling, that's how I help develop the teams. Do you

32:28  
have an example as to that in practice, or where you've done that with, like, someone in particular? Yeah,

32:33  
I do, actually. So one I love recently was how to explain. So when it comes to content, I think a lot of people just think of content as, like written content, like blogs, yeah. So I had a one team that I was building, and I hired this head of content in and they were writing. I helped them to, kind of like to write the the content strategy. And then I think, like, I noticed that across the business, there was this perception of lower this person has come in, and all they're going to do all day is smash up blogs. No, there needs to be a bit of education. Yeah, what it is. So what I did was I asked him, actually, on the next team call to present his strategy, and I helped him to, kind of to communicate that and tell the story. It's not just about this type of content. This is first of all why we need content. Yes, what content really is, it's all of these different things, like this variety of different formats, and this is what it's going to this is how I'm going to measure it, and this is what it's going to result in. And yeah, it kind of opened up the eyes for the organization, I think. But it also helped this person, yeah, confident about what they were delivering and how they were contributing to the company goals. And yeah, and

33:48  
I bet it improved communication between that person and other people and generally and vice versa. Like, when you have that much more of an understanding of what somebody does, it's so much easier to, like, engage and collaborate with them

34:01  
totally. Because what would normally happen is, and especially kind of like from a sales point of view, is they'd go to the content person and say, write me a blog. Yeah, you know, can we write an article about this? Whereas I always say, like, my first from sales, I don't, don't come to me and tell me what you need. Come to me and tell me what problem that you want to solve. Yeah, marketers will help you to sort of think about how you can communicate that. So yeah, there was the communication. And then the third one is collaboration. And I feel like I've already sort of touched upon this, but the marketing teams don't like work alone in their silos, like they can't do I think, to be honest, that's where I sort of see sometimes it falling down a little bit with, like, bigger organizations, yeah, people, because they're very much kind of in their in their own little world, and not thinking kind of more collaboratively about the goal of marketing in general. So yeah, making sure that people are jumping into each other's camps and that sort of thing. Yeah,

35:00  
and how do you, how do you identify and nurture, like, high potential?

35:07  
So, oh, this is a, this is a really hard one. I always hate kind of like, well, obviously, this is your world, but it's a bit like, if you take, if you take the kind of like dating analogy, right, you'd never go on like, three dates for someone that were, like, an hour long dinners and they want to marry them, but that is what we're about to do, aren't we? Like, will you marry me on the third date? Like, it's crazy. Um, I'm looking for again, I wrote three things down just to kind of give me, like, a prompt on when I thought about it, like, what jumped into my mind, the first one was diversity and inclusion. Yes, that I'm like, super, super keen on. And what I'm looking for is people that can bring kind of a different perspective to the team and to the company as well. What we're doing, I'm always looking for that, because obviously, there's so many statistics out there that prove that, you know, having a sort of a diverse team is better on performance. So that's something I've always got in the back of my mind. The second one is the, the kind of the the talent development. Again, we kind of like touched on this already, but looking for people that are, like a bit open to sort of jump, jump in and, you know, jump around and kind of like, learn, not kind of like closed and saying, right, I'm going to come in and this is what I can add value add to the business. And, you know, I know what I know, and that's it, learn anymore. So I'm not, yeah, not, not looking for that. And then the third one is recognition, really interesting one. Because I think when, when you're working, especially in my world, like, I've worked for a big, a big corporate, I did that for 10 years, but for the last years, it's been more like startups and scale ups, yeah. And I think when we're working in starting ups and scale ups, the world is moving so fast, yeah. And in marketing, we're constantly having to, like, we set a strategy, and then we have to test and learn, and very quickly, it's not not working, so we have to pivot. But that's okay. That's our job. Like, this is okay. This is, this is what we should be doing. But you know, that could go the other way, where people could be, like, really demotivated by that, and, yeah, working, or it's maybe something they're doing wrong. So I think I'm really big on kind of like recognizing people, making those, like mini recognitions, you know, giving kudos to people for certain things that they're doing quite regularly, and making sure that, yeah, that you're highlighting it, along with kind of like the downsides as well. Do

37:41  
you think that feeds into the cultural Do you have, like, a culture of recognition on your team then, because, I guess if you're consistently recognizing people, the things, other people on your team might recognize their teammates, the things as well, and that just might just kind of like just be like a hub of people, just actually recognizing what other people are doing.

38:00  
Yeah, no, definitely. I think it's like, when you when you hear people recognizing you, it makes you give back as well, because you're kind of constantly thinking about it. So yeah, I think that's when I do recognize people as well. I recognize like my team members. I do it publicly. In fact, I mean, I do it for the all of the organization. When I see people, I'll go onto our Slack channel and I'll say kudos to so and so, yeah, for doing this particular thing. Yeah, yeah. Probably like, I say, like, a bit more kind of for my team, I would say

38:33  
we used to do it's called proud and proud of and we did it on a Fridays. And you would have to kind of share one thing from the week that you're most proud of about yourself, and then something that you're proud of about somebody else in the business that you you're aware that they did that week. And the more you did it, the more you started paying attention over the weeks to you know. You wanted to know what everyone had been up to, because you wanted to be able to recognize them at the end of the week. And it was so nice, because sometimes you would see that, like, quite a few people would be proud of the same person, but you could clearly see that that person had no idea that other people had recognized that they'd been doing those things. Yeah, I remember that. And when somebody said that they were proud of you. You were always like, Oh my God. Like, it really did make your day. But yeah, I remember that. And that was, like, the last thing they would do on a Fridays. That was when we were in the office as well. So you were literally saying it to each other in person. And yeah, I always do simply remember that. I

39:39  
think, like, it's funny, because, you know, we have our jobs, right, and we have our things that we're responsible and accountable for. And I hate this thought that if you're doing your job, that you shouldn't be recognized from it, because you just like, that's what you're paid to do. Why should I congratulate or recognize someone or give kudos to someone for doing something that's their job? Like? What do you mean? Like, we, you know, we come and we spend, you know, eight or more hours every day, five days a week, doing this, help and support each other and make it a nice environment, exactly.

40:11  
I couldn't agree more. And what about retention? Like, what strategies have you found effective for retaining talent within your teams. I

40:22  
think here it's, well again, not trying to, kind of like dodge the answer. It sounds like I've never given a straight answer. It really depends on the organization or, sorry, not in the organization person, yeah. So what I do, first of all is I try and work out, not by just by asking directly, but trying to work out kind of what the values are of my team members, what they value most? Yeah, some of them might value that kind of career path and wanting to have visibility of like where they can go. And that's something that you can help is look at development areas and what they need to kind of like, grow in their role and grow in seniority, and, you know that sort of thing. Some people might, they might find value in actually just upskilling in kind of like what they are. So, you know, help them with that. So that is what I think helps with retention. I think it's not just kind of saying one blanket answer for all of your team members and saying, I'm going to show them an org chart, and you know how we're going to grow the team, and everyone's going to be promoted to head of and director, and because some people don't value that, it's making sure digitally you find out what people care about most. Kind of goes back to my diversity and inclusion. Yeah, inclusive.

41:33  
How do you create an environment where people are comfortable to share with you those kinds of things? Is that something that you're just asking people in like, one to ones and stuff like, what they're most passionate about, or what they care about the most.

41:44  
So here's like, the tip. One of the biggest tips I have for, like, one to ones, actually, I've learned over the years, is that one to ones are not the only are not just for catching up on work things. Yeah, what I always try and do is, like, make sure that the one to ones. I'll give you an example. Actually, I've done it this week. I had a one or I've got a one to one with one of my team members coming up on Thursday, yeah, but bunch of work stuff that we need to talk about now, in my head, my first thought, I'll be honest, was, I'll write it all down. I'll catch up with him in a one to one. I'm like, no, because then the whole hour is just going to be about all of these, like work, time to ask about him and about how he's doing and what he's doing at the weekend, you know, that sort of things. So I've actually put another slot in for today. Nice. Just check in time. Hold on a sec. Sorry, yeah, no, I'm alright. I which is next, actually, it's the next I put another hour in with him today where we can do the work check in, so that I can get a load of that stuff off. So I know my one to one on Thursday is going to be like 5050, we'll talk a little bit about work, but then I can spend some time on him as well. And that's the part where you're really understanding those kind of like values and digging into like, you know, okay, where do you want to upskill and that sort of thing, yeah,

43:05  
I think that's so important as well, because it shows to the individual that that, you know, their manager actually really does care and is invested in them as a person and what they want, as opposed to, you know, just the the work, if that, if that makes sense. And I know I appreciate those. When I have I report into the COO and when I have, like, catch ups with him on a weekly basis, like half of our discussion is really just about me and, like, just nothing to do with sometimes we're, like, talking for 30 minutes about me and him and life and stuff like that, and then the other part of the conversation is obviously more focused. But I think if we didn't have that part of the conversation, I don't think there would be as much connectivity or rapport, or I just wouldn't feel as that he was as invested in me. If it were just the other way around, if that makes sense, it would feel a lot more selfish. Yeah. Well,

44:03  
how would that person, kind of, like, how would you comfortable? Would you then feel kind of going to that person, like your boss and saying, you know, I kind of need some support, or, yeah, that next step in my career, what can I do? Like, you wouldn't have that level of comfort with them. So, yeah, I think that's really, really important to build that relationship with people.

44:23  
I definitely, definitely agree, and I pretty much come to the end of my questions, because if I was right, you had team development, talent alignment with company objectives, and was it building from scratch, right? Is there anything that we haven't covered that you had thought about ahead of the discussion, that you thought would be good to share or to add to anything typical thing,

44:48  
right? Because I'm like, I really suffer from kind of imposter syndrome, really bad. And I've made like, a shit load of notes, and I haven't even looked at them, which is so. The only time I looked was when I was just the the that one question about the because I thought I was going to get one of them wrong. But so let me just you would never

45:08  
know that you suffered from past the syndrome. I would have had absolutely no idea. It just all flows completely naturally. I absolutely

45:16  
I love, like, I'm I love, like, networking and put me in a room. And honestly, I'm so, like, confident in talking to like anybody I love, like, hosting webinars, and I do, like, panel moderating things like that. Yeah, my key is that I am so over prepared in the

45:35  
background, isn't it? Underwater, it's like going crazy. But you're just you. I would honestly, I had no idea. I wouldn't even known you had prepared all notes ahead of this. It just seems like it just came. It's

45:48  
comfort blank. Yeah, and let me just have a quick they if there's anything else I can help like to add, if there's anything I missed, yeah, no, I don't think there is perfect.

46:03  
Yeah. Thank you so much. Honestly, this has been brilliant, and it's been so good to, like, pick your brains a little bit and just understand, kind of, like how you do things, what works for you, but also like the lessons that you've learned along the way and how you've evolved as well. And so I think that will be incredibly valuable to all the different types of people that that I speak with, really whether that's like leaders of startups scale ups whether that's candidates wanting to kind of progress their careers. And so I will definitely be back in touch very shortly. I've got one last conversation to take place, and then I'll be sitting down with Georgie, who's our Head of Marketing and also our content manager and going back through all the pieces of content that I've gathered, and then figuring out how we're going to, kind of like, package that up and share it in terms of insights. And we did have an idea of, initially, we were going to do a a white paper, and then somebody said an ebook would probably be better and a bit more engaging. We're thinking mini snippets and videos of just kind of like, maybe multiple answers around certain topics, and then also maybe, like deep diving into, like one person's answers around a few things. So there's a few various ideas. If you happen to see anything, or you've seen anything, that any form of content that you think could work well for this kind of series, feel free to like share it or tag it with me, or something like that. If you, if you see anything on

47:23  
like, I would say, so the ebook definitely, and what I would do is, I love the structure that you've got with those questions, and, yeah, different topics you could do almost just as a first iteration. And with marketing, it is about just getting something out, like, really, yeah, take like, little snippets of what people said and just put them as kind of like quotes with, you know, like the name of the person, if they're happy, and that sort of thing, and push that out. But here's the key. Then, if you start pushing some of those messages out on things like social or start sharing it with your audience, find out which ones then get the biggest reaction. Yeah, that's so true. They're the ones then that you want to go and do the deep dive in, yeah. And come back to the interviews like this, and then maybe do more of like, a long form like piece on that particular topic. But yeah, thinking about which ones your audience are gonna such

48:10  
a good idea actually, to see which one resonates the most and which people are more engaged with, as opposed to doing it the way around putting loads of into one, and they realize that it's not the one that

48:22  
I was sort of saying earlier, like, with the startups, is we've just gotta be so, like, quick at things all the time, but just yeah, like, try and break it down and push stuff out, like, really quickly and just get a reaction or move on to something. Yeah, that's

48:35  
so good. Appreciate that. Really, really, thank you. And what else is I going to say? I definitely want

48:42  
to see a copy, though, of what the other 100%

48:44  
Yeah, all of the stuff together I will, I will obviously share and show you, like the insights that we gathered and stuff like that. I think it's going to be super interesting. I can't wait to start getting it all out there. So watch this space coming, coming soon, basically to thank you so much, and I'm super excited to see your podcast as well. So when you say it's coming out next month, next

49:09  
month, yes, I'm going to start doing some teasers soon on it, and I can say I've got a few episodes now, and I'm so excited. Like all of the episodes, like the people have been so good. I'm really I'm learning so much stuff, so I'm hoping others will as well.

49:21  
Oh, definitely people will. I will direct people to it to learn, because I'm always talking to people who are saying that they want to hear more insights, they want to learn more things. So like cmo therapy, I think is a good title as well. I think that will resonate with people. Actually,

49:34  
it's like therapies. That's what we always I always joke and say, like, the last few years, especially, you know, having conversation with other CMOS, and it is, like, a bit of a therapy thing, yeah, like, I'm always one of those persons where people just seem to want to tell me all their problems as well. It's a bit like lay down on my couch and, you know, just

49:53  
have that love that so good. Well, thank you so much for your time. Honestly, this has been a pleasure, and it was worth the wait. So. I'm glad that we wanted to have a chat, and let's keep in touch, like, I'll be back in touch very soon, in regards to kind of like, what actually this is going to look like, and then I'm sure I'll see you at some point in the future. And, yeah, let's stay in contact. Thank you so much for your patience. You're welcome. Thank.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
