Building from Scratch: Initial Steps and Priorities (0:01)Determining Skill Sets and Team Growth (5:49)Challenges and Measuring Success in Building from Scratch (18:20)Navigating Growth Phases and Team Dynamics (18:32)Fostering High Performance Culture (20:36)Balancing Business and Individual Needs (24:44)Promoting Effective Communication and Collaboration (31:08)Ensuring Diversity and Inclusivity (38:33)Final Thoughts and Next Steps (43:45)0:01  So you said navigating growth phases and building high performance teams, right? Let me just go back to and building from scratch. Well, to me, from scratch, that's, that's what I meant. Sorry. So it's one0:13  of them is just from the starting point, and then it's just like, yeah. I mean to me, it's the same thing, not the same thing, just different phases. Yeah,0:21  exactly that. That's exactly what the questions are around as well. It probably starts to make sense to start from building from scratch. Actually, those, I agree, navigating growth phases. So let me just put up what I wanted to discuss around. Okay, perfect. So the first topic that I wanted to dive into is building from scratch. And what I particularly wanted to understand is, if you're in that scenario where you've gone into an environment and you are, say, the first person in marketing that's been appointed, where do you start first? Like, what are your starting priorities at that point in time.1:03  So that has happened to me most of my career. That's kind of my specialty, is to go in and build the team, build the function, build the structure.1:10  So1:11  there's a couple of different things. I think the first place that you start is you have to understand what are the expectations from a marketing team and why they brought you on, obviously, from a senior marketing leadership. It's it's up to you to kind of figure out what your KPIs are and what you think you can achieve. But1:29  presumably, they've1:31  hired you for a reason. It could be brand awareness. It's most likely revenue generation, let's be honest.1:37  And what are they1:40  expecting? So I'll give you an example. So I kind of look from a marketing perspective. I have a seven pillar model that I look at, I look at demand, generation, lead generation, content, brand, go to market, pricing and packaging, all of those things. Every marketeer has the same toolbox. We know where the gold standard is, and then it's figuring out, okay, where is the organization today, and where do we want to go? That provides me a 12 month, 24 month roadmap, because I know exactly what I need to achieve. But you can't do all seven pillars at the same time, so you have to focus on one or two. And so what are those one or two within the organization you're in? Most likely, if you're starting from scratch, it's going to be revenue generation, which is lead generation that, like it normally, just is. So assuming that you have to figure out, okay, I'm one person. I'm probably working with the sales team. What is it do I need to focus on that's going to get more leads and get more more leads to the sales people? And so I think it depends. It's different for different companies, obviously, how that is and what that is, but it is. So then taking a look at who your personas are, how they consume information, and how can you engage them? If it's fast moving, and you're getting a lot of leads in, it's about increasing the speed. If it's a very slow moving product, it potentially could be events, it's, you know, content. It could be different things. But to me, if you if you ring the fence, exactly what it is that you want to achieve, and then how you think you can amplify it, that then tells you, okay, what skill sets do I need,3:19  right? So3:21  I'll give you an example, one of the first so if you're an organization where you need to do a lot of outbound calls, for example information, then you're working with a team that does like BDRs or SDRs, because they can do that. If you're working with an organization that maybe relies a lot on incoming content, white papers, that kind of thing, then you're going to need to generate this stuff. Yeah, then you're going to have to look at either someone who is like a product marketing specialist that can come in and write the stuff, or are you looking at outsourcing it from an agency? So to me, it's really you've got to start in what is the need, and then you kind of go from4:08  there. And so you said that a lot of the time it is lead gen, lead lead generation their business needs. But it's not always the case, right? So the you need to determine exactly, I guess, the state of the business. Now, like you said, where they want to go and what's going to drive them there? Because if people went in always assuming it was lead gen, I guess there's been scenarios where they've hired incorrectly, right, or they've hired what this is it. I was in a situation4:34  once where I was where I was speaking to an organization, and I assumed it was lead generation. So I was very data driven, very data focused and and I didn't realize until they came back to me that they were actually looking for more brand specialist and brand awareness.4:49  Uh huh. So,4:50  and that's what I'm saying, is you have been hired for reason. Presumably, the senior management team, the CEO, the board, whomever it is, has an expert. Application of why marketing was hired, what was the gap within the senior management team that they weren't, that they didn't have? Could very well be that they're providing, that there are lots of leads and there's lots of revenues, great, but they are more on a even. It doesn't have to be B to C, but it could be more of a higher awareness type organization, so that they really want to establish their brand in the market. So that's what your focus is going to be for the for the foreseeable future, is building your brand, building your awareness that way. So I think it really depends, and that's the first place you have to start. You can't, I mean, I most often lead generation, but you can't assume. I5:40  guess then, in terms in order to get the building from scratch part right, it's equally important, if we rewind a step, that the business get that first person right as well. Because if they've got that person wrong, then and then they they come in and they don't, maybe they don't have the skills. Do you know what I mean, if they assume that they need a particular skill. Have you been in a scenario where that first role has been wrong and then you've come in? Or heard of scenarios? Oh, I've been in a situation6:10  where the board thought they knew what they wanted, but they didn't actually, yeah. So6:18  I think it's a good6:19  senior marketing person who's going to come in and establish their own KPIs. And I think even I've been in a situation where the board has said that they need a marketing person, but they don't actually kind of know why. They just know that that's what you're supposed to have. So it's, again, it says, Have having that conversation in the very beginning, establishing expectations and and as you know, for marketing is such a wide range of skills. So you can't be good, you can't be an expert at everything, like you can't be a designer and a data person at the same time. You're very you're not, you're going to be kind of more scientific from one or the other, but then that's the senior marketing that you bring in the skills that you're lacking. I am not a designer. I'm just not so that's one of my first skill sets that I wasn't sure that I have handy, whether internally or externally, when I come into a role is someone who's going to design layout be that more creative side of the organization, because that's not my one skill set. Whereas I'm a great copywriter, just naturally so I can write. Yeah, so it's also based on your own personal skill set. And when you were really, really small team, you've got to wear multiple hats.7:37  So what is it that you're7:40  is not your strength. I think, I think that's really important, from a senior management perspective, is knowing what7:46  your what your strengths, don't lie so that you can pad them. How7:51  do you determine so you're the first person, right? And so you've you've looked into the business, and you understand, like the goals, and you've figured out, okay, these are the skills that I'm going to need in order to get there. How would you determine how quickly you grow that team and the levels that you hire? You know whether you hire somebody bit more experienced, or you go more like mid level, like, how would you figure that stuff out?8:12  So I realized in the beginning, it's really important that you are hiring someone with multiple skill sets, because you have to be all things. So if there's a team of two, you need to cover all seven pillars, right? You need to cover demand generation, you need to cover brand awareness, you need to be lead generation, you have to do product marketing, all of those things. And so I if I was the first person, then I think, Okay, well, what's skills marketing? So I spoke about design. For example, I needed someone who's able to be really hot in design, and it could be subject matter awareness, so someone who's going to actually step into that product marketing role and going to be like writing stuff. I've also realized I've made the mistake of, you need to hire someone who's, how do I phrase this? Not too Junior, because you simply don't have the time to, like, foster someone, like foster someone and teach them and it and and so you really need to have someone who's going to come in and then know what they're doing, and then it's about, okay, how do they so that they can add to the strategy. They may not be running the strategy, but they can say, right, I'm going to own this piece of the pie, and I think the strategy should be x, and I can also implement it. So you need the implementation, but also the strategy. I've also, I've been a situation where if you hire two Junior and it costs as a factor, right? Let's be honest, you're in a startup environment. You want to get you can't you don't want to spend so much money. But if you get someone to junior as a senior marketing person, you end up coaching them all the time, or you end up outsourcing to an agency because you need assistance, an extra set of hands. And their choice is expensive,10:01  yeah, what? What would you say the biggest challenge is associated with this kind of phase, like the building from scratch, phase that you've all, that you've been through.10:14  The biggest challenge is, I think, knowing when to hire again, when to hire someone?10:23  Yeah, I think when? When is10:25  it? Because the organization as a tote as a whole is really looking, you know, at their their expenses, and10:35  it's about, how10:36  do you motivate? What is the return on investment of hiring a new marketing person.10:44  So outcomes versus the amount spent on the salary, to me, that's measurable, I think. And10:58  do you think you could hire? So this, I guess there's scenarios where you could hire too soon, or, I guess too late as well. Not quick enough, too late, I don't think too soon.11:10  I think, I think I was in, I was in a situation where I was, I was the only marketing person for quite some time. And then there was this trade off between11:19  outcomes, deliverables, and and there wasn't enough of it. But I mean,11:24  if you're only one person, and you're also the senior marketing person, you're also sitting in in strategy meetings, and, you know, that kind of thing. So I don't think you can hire too early. I definitely think you can leave it too late.11:38  And like I said, I go, No, I was just gonna say, but I think11:41  it's definitely measurable. Because if you are, you're at a place where, like, you can actually measure the output of the person, or suggested output. Because if you know exactly what they're going to do and the impact that it's going to have, then to me, you can actually measure almost like, a return on investment of this person, and that then justifies the expense to the CFO, yeah, yeah,12:01  because the CFO is12:02  not going to understand why you should probably hire a product marketing specialist or digital marketing specialist, right? But if you can say, right, well, their salary is going to be x, but I think the return on an investment, on our of our commercials, you know, are going to be y, then then you can start to justify the the expense. How12:21  do you balance hiring for like, immediate needs versus, like, the long term? Like,12:27  you know, that's a tough one.12:30  That's a really, that's a really, really tough one. I think that you have to look longer term,12:36  because other than12:38  contracting right, and if you're in a startup situation, six months down the line, looks very, very different. So I think a, it's skill set of the person they need to be multi like, multi skilled. And B, someone that who12:53  is12:54  going to grow the organization. I think you also you always want to like, you always want to hire up, yeah,13:03  almost someone who's almost a little bit too good for you now, because as the13:07  organization grows, they'll be able to grow with the organization. And that's also my argument about hiring someone who's too Junior, without a lot of coaching, they may not be ready to step up into the new role. I've been in a situation where the company was really at a startup phase, and then they moved into a growth phase. So it was almost like being the analogy I gave. It was like they were a kid, a six year old kid, and then they moved into the Pimply teenager stage. And not all the staff could move into that Pimply teenager stage. They just didn't have the skill set required, and you don't want to be in that situation where you're then having to let keep people go because they can't make that transition. You want, actually, someone to be able to grow into it.13:49  Is that? Is that all you mean? But hard to me, that's,13:54  yeah. So to me, it's, um, it's things like, when I'm when I'm hiring, I'm also looking at their hunger,14:02  their ability to14:06  go above and beyond. Their ability, their curiosity. I think if someone's really curious and really innovative in their current role, and they could just be they saw a gap and they solved a problem in their current role, then I think that's a really good place for someone who's going into a growth up, because then they're going to find the the gaps, they're going to find the situations where14:29  they would have provide a lot of value, as14:32  opposed to someone who's just going to do14:37  what they're told. How important do you think knowledge of the industry is at this point in time.14:44  I think it depends upon what your organization does. I think, I think it's really dependent upon, upon the specificity of of it. So, if you're14:57  pardon me, and I guess the role as well. You'll hire me for?15:02  Yeah? Okay, sure, yeah. But, like, I think it's dependent upon the personas that you're dealing with. So if you're dealing in FinTech, but it's B to C, or it's B to B, but like all kinds of different businesses that I don't think necessarily as specific knowledge is required, as opposed to, if you're dealing in some very specific FinTech in the banking world, like you know what I mean, then I think you need to have some more finance type background. It's it's in marketing. You need to be able to relate to your persona. And if you can't put yourself into their shoes, it becomes very difficult. What15:46  What strategies have you found most effective at finding the right talent at this point in time? I15:52  find it really difficult. It's really difficult. It's really difficult and really time consuming. I think, as you know, because someone might look good on paper, and then they just don't have that, like, that hunger, that curiosity, as I was talking about, because it's not on a piece of paper. Um,16:14  yeah, I think it's about working16:17  with a really good partner. I think it's also, I mean, it's an argument for for you, for you guys as recruiters, isn't it? It's about, I would rather spend more on getting the right person in the role, and then they're going to be in the role for three, five years, whatever, and then, you know, cost per month, day, whatever it might be, is significantly less, if then they're thriving in the environment, yeah, as opposed to someone, you know, and then also two time spent searching on LinkedIn and all those kinds of things. It's, it's an opportunity cost, really,17:01  definitely, definitely. I think that yeah, for sure, the money that you spend you would get back in heaps for finding the right person to go into that role. Yeah, I think17:13  it's really, really important, especially if you're in a team of two versus a team of 50, you can't hide so the skill sets, the outputs that's really important to find the right person.17:24  Is there any more that you found more challenging than others to hire for? Yep, I'm just17:41  trying to think17:48  No, I think you'd have to have very specific I do a lot of I do a case study as well, during hiring, the hiring process. So if it's a product marketing person is in perspective, then you would obviously have to have some background, and you know what their KPIs are going to KPIs are going to be, physical performance marketing. You have to know their skill set around the tools that they use. I think, I guess the most difficult one is design, because that's absolutely not measurable,18:14  really, and that's just that's more18:17  like portfolio or, you know, then you'd have to be aligned in terms of where your brand is going to go. But I think all other rules, even digital marketing has, like, what tools are you comfortable with? How have you used them? What have you done in the past? You know, you could ask all those questions about what you need to do,18:33  yeah, yeah, yeah. Brilliant. Wow. That is the end of the questions for building from scratch. So we can move into navigating growth phases, which is kind of more about. So you've you've gone in, perhaps in an earlier stage business, you're the first one you're building from scratch, whereas the growth phases is more like that, kind of like later stage. So let me just grab the questions I wanted to ask for that one second19:04  that's very similar. My headphones just died.19:08  I'll say maybe the Navigating growth phases is quite similar. Yeah,19:11  did you want to do a different one?19:13  Well, that's what I'm thinking maybe,19:22  um, in culture and dynamics,19:32  yeah, let's try that one, yeah, yeah, great, great. I think the Navigating growth phases is very similar. I think my answers would be very similar,19:39  yeah, okay, the so on the Navigating growth phases, it was kind of along the lines of when you go in and there's already a team in place, so it's about kind of evaluating, I guess, the readiness of that team in order to unlock the growth that you've been tasked with, like getting and. Um, but the reshaping culture, there's probably less people that have answered this, so it's probably better, actually, um, because I can get some more insights around it.20:08  So what's, what's the kind of, well, it's, can you just tell me the kind of direction of that one? Because I can going into an established team. So that's as well.20:17  So for which one the growth phases, or the culture and dynamics.20:22  So the growth phase is one you just told me, the overall arching, which is, I can also speak to that one, what would be, what's the kind of angle about the team culture and dynamics? Oh,20:31  okay, it's about strategies that you've, like, found effective for fostering, like the high performance culture, essentially. And, yeah, how you do that? So like, the role of like feedback and recognition in kind of like driving cultural efforts, and, you know, practices that you found to drive, like cohesion and collaboration and amongst the team, it's all about what, how you install a high performance culture, how you bring your team together, and things that you do to foster that essentially,21:04  okay, All right, well, let's try that one. Yeah, okay. I21:20  them. So it's gonna21:25  say as marketing people, we're driven into like KPIs and so that's probably why there's less about team culture and dynamics, because we're less, like focused on that kind of stuff. But anyways, so21:35  what, what have you found most effective in fostering a high performance culture. Notice, is there anything that you do that you feel unlocks that wherever you go?21:48  So I'm a big proponent of creating a team of experts and actually leaning into that expertise, right? So I've always said to my team, I'll give you an example. I hired a bunch of people in a role, and there was a 23 year old graphic designer who joined our team. And yes, he was new, and yes he was, you know, fresh out of kind of uni, but he knew more about graphic design than I ever will. And so while I've been around a long time, and I kind of ultimately lead the strategy and driving where we need to go. I wanted to ensure that the team should own their area of expertise. And so when we're in a team meeting, it's not for me to necessarily decide entirely the direction when we want to go. I want that 23 year old graphic designer to stand up, step up, and say, well, actually, guys, you know, our let's say new web page should look like this, because x, y and z. Now, ultimately, yes, it's my decision, but I want to debate. I want to have a debate. I want to understand. I want this person to teach me what I don't already know, and vice versa. So if we're sitting around on a team meeting and marketing team meeting, and there might be 10 people around the room, those people should be owning and owning the area of expertise in which they're working. And so then it's about a sense of yes as a team. We can all debate, and we can all question, why have you come up with this answer? But I think it's really great then, in that it fosters a sense of almost like it's a bit of a pride as well, in terms of their work culture and they own so that they're many directors. They might be in their second job out of uni, but they're many directors of their own area, because they live it and breathe it every day. They know more about that than I do, necessarily, from the operational perspective. So let's bring it. Let's talk about it. Let's discuss it. And, you know, you would be standing in the middle of the circle, like I always envision it when you're, you know, in, you know, in, like, kindergarten, and you're sitting around a circle and, like, cross legged on the floor, and you're the one now in the middle talking about, you know, that particular area of expertise, so24:05  giving people ownership essentially over their kind of poor area, and it's24:11  ownership, but also the ability to lead24:14  it, uh huh. I24:17  think that's really, really important. So it's them to suggest where we should go, how we should you know how this fits into the bigger strategy, the directions. That doesn't mean necessarily that that ultimately be will be the way that we do it, because we have to look at the bigger picture. But I think that they know that they're living it and breathing it every single day.24:40  And how do you understand, like, when you you know you've built out this team, so there's like, five people that you're working with. Like, is there things that you do to really get under the hood of the people that you're working with? To understand whether they're the type of people that you need to like, push sometimes, or pull sometimes, or like, how to best work with people to drive performance, to get the. Best out of them. Yeah.25:01  So, as I said, like, from a management perspective or leadership perspective, I really believe in making people accountable for their role. So it's almost like they're running a little mini business in and of their expertise. But the same token. That doesn't mean you can manage everybody the same way. You know, I've had people who are very, very specific and very sort of detail oriented, but then they get very flustered and very anxious very easily. And then I have other people who are maybe more lax about those kinds of things and not attention to detail nor deadlines. So you have to push them in a very different way. And so while the goal and the objectives are the same, and you're treating them from a you know, you need to own your area of expertise. You need to be the expert in it. How you might manage someone is very different. So for this person who's not maybe time oriented, they need to have, I need to be on them quite a lot more in terms of deliverables and breaking a project up into many, many steps, whereas someone else, who they're just flying but they need a lot of reassurance, and they, you know, they need exposure to show that, yes, they are being valued. So I think you manage people in different ways.26:16  What about insure? How do you ensure that the needs of the business, right, are being met, whilst also ensuring that the needs of the individual are being met as well.26:28  Well, it's KPIs. So you know whether your organization does quarter most organizations now do quarterly KPIs. So you know the quarterly KPIs are decided, like at the board level or the C suite level. So we know what those are going to be. Then we sit down with my team and say, right, well, this is what the organization, the organization needs to achieve. We need to grow by X percentage revenue. We need to do X, Y and Z, and these KPIs filter down to us. So I want you to figure out, in your particular role, how are you going to add to that,27:00  and how does that tie in with their career progression?27:05  Well, again, I think it's that directorship or ownership, right? So that graphic designer is going to say, right, okay, when we need to increase our revenues by food, I don't have 50% this year. So how am I going to do that? Well, I'm either going to produce pieces that are going to be used by the sales people, and I'm going to produce more of them, I'm going to, you know, it's that kind of thing. I mean, obviously I don't leave someone just on their own to develop the KPI and then, you know, we have to look at it at a bigger picture. But I'm not going to, I don't want to. I don't want to give someone their KPIs like, I don't think ultimately we'll decide on doing together, and so I need to make sure all the building blocks come up together. But you know, you've got to have a stab at it. So, yeah, you're going to motivate yourself. What do you and I think if you then feel like you have accountability into the bigger organization27:57  to say that what you're talking about here, I can see how would massively install accountability in people in the team,28:07  exactly and oftentimes the bigger, bigger KPIs of an organization like it's really difficult to see from an individual level how I'm going to actually have an impact on that, you know, yeah. But if you then try to break it down, and then you buy into the into the KPIs yourself, then then there's accountability, and, you know, and it's also, I mean, there's a lot of accountability from a leadership perspective as well, that you need to feedback that, like, you know, what the other teams are doing and how we're progressing, and how we're meeting that and all those kinds of things. But yeah, it's about driving accountability. What28:46  in your in your earlier career, were you in environments where it wasn't done like this, which enabled you to realize how it should be done? I'm just okay.28:58  I worked in very large corporates, where I remember filling out my performance appraisal once a year. And I think we probably everybody, probably spent two weeks straight writing a document that was probably about 30 or 40 pages each, and you would have to write down like the KPIs were broken down into, I don't know, 25 different areas, and then you had to write down situations in which you achieved and I mean, I know at all, often, being a senior person, no one ever read it. It was done in perception anyway. So it's a waste of time, you know? Yeah. But the end of the quarter, I want also to be able to say, okay, so when the CEO turns around to me, you're at the board, and they say, right? Tina, like, what? How did marketing hit their KPIs? Everything's measurable. And then if someone asks me, okay, well, how did that person meet their KPIs? Well, they need, they know on a monthly basis, exactly measure. Measurable that they needed to do, because it's measurable.30:04  Yeah, I definitely think that that makes complete sense, and kind of consist talking about that bigger picture and then enabling people to figure out what they can do, then their part that they complain, it would definitely give them ownership accountability, and I guess they'd feel valued as well, that you're enabling them, or trusting them to be able to, kind of, like, make those decisions and be accountable for it, and then30:27  they don't have all the answers, right? That's my job, is to help, um, but they should at least be able to, I think, just the abilities, if you're really Junior, you know, really be able to sit down and say, okay, like, how am I going to impact? Yeah, the revenue? Yeah, they've thought about it, as opposed to just coming in and just like doing what they need to do today.30:45  Yeah, because I speak to so many candidates who aren't in environments like that, and they don't, they don't feel valued, or that they're what they're doing is, do you know what I mean, making an impact, or sometimes it's easy to feel just to not, to not see that. So if, if you're leading people in that way, I don't think those challenges would arise. What about how important do you feel the role of kind of like cohesion and collaboration between the team is in order to have a team that has high performance? And how do you do that? If you do think it's important, yeah, I think31:19  it's really, really important. I also have no place for egos. None, absolutely none. If I'm going to sit there and listen to a 23 year old graphic designer tell me how to like the best practices of graphic design, I expect the same from other but everybody else, and that's why also, too, if you are the expert in your particular area, that already gives you some31:41  respect. Maybe amongst your peers that31:44  you own this area, but and then you you would do the same to your other colleague who has a different area of expertise. And so that's also why I try to foster a team of mini experts, because then you respect each other, and then you'll engage with each other, because you'll need assistance, because not everybody's good at everything, and there's, you know, you need to achieve something, so you go to that experience, you know, that's kind of the thing. But yeah, I think it's respect and trust and lack of ego.32:12  Is there any practices that you have to promote effective communication between people?32:20  Yeah, yeah. I think, I think I've, I've led teams where32:25  team members weren't talking to each other enough, they weren't collaborating with each other enough, um, and so you kind of have to say, Well, have you spoken to this person? What did they think? Like? Have you gone to them? And sometimes it's personality clashes, and there's nothing you can really do. You just kind of, you have to just instill the fact that, again, we have no egos. We go to each other, you know, we're all in this together. And the other thing I do, rightly or wrongly, is I try to instill a sense of pride in being the marketing team. So I also discussed with the team the impressions of marketing from an external perspective, and how we want other teams in the business to perceive marketing. Yeah, I think it's really, really important, particularly in tech, where you have a lot of like, black and white people, and we slightly might be slightly more creative. Or, you know, people always think marketing is like pretty pictures in social media. So how do we change? You know, the sales guys have called us. Let's be responsive. Let's give them what they need so that they'll call us again. You know, the product developers have asked us a question. Let's make sure that you know everybody sees. I'll give you an example, even in my current, my current role, like I said to my team, I just want to make sure that people in the organization know when they ask people for marketing, we give them high quality deliverables on time. You know, that kind of thing, and we outperform their expectations, so that collectively, we're a unit as well.34:07  How do you how do you This is slightly off the topic, but it's just coming to my head based on what you've said. How do you manage, I guess, because marketing sometimes people don't understand what it does, right? So you might just get a lot of random requests for things. How do you manage, kind of, being reactive to things like that, and kind of, but also balancing the needs of what you what you you're Do you know what I mean, aligning to your plan, etc.34:35  I try to make sure that other departments know what marketing does. Yeah, so I've done internal newsletters before. I've done presentations where, hey guys, do you know what the marketing KPIs are this year? This is what we're doing, that kind of thing. Because, again, in a bunch of like, a company full of developers, where you are the pretty pictures and colorful people, and then so then, but so then you will get someone who will call you and say, Can you help me with this? Yes. And actually, I see that as a good thing, because they don't know how to solve the question themselves, and then they've reached out to us so we can say, well, you know what? Like, it's not really what we do, or we're kind of busy with this, but can we help you? We'll get you back to you in two weeks, or whatever, you know, whatever it means. Again, it's getting that exposure from marketing department as a whole.35:22  And so back to the kind of original topic. Then, just because I kind of jumped slightly on that one, how often do you give like feedback and recognition to your team and how important do you think35:36  that is? Well, I think it's, I think it's different for different people, to be honest.35:43  I think that in the example I gave of the two different employees, the person, and then this is largely I'm generalizing, because it depends on the person. I think some people so the in the instance of the person who was needed, like, like, I'm not micromanaging, but like, lot more broken down timelines and all that kind of stuff they didn't really need, like external sort of affirmations. Was the person who I was managing, who was very driven, felt like she just wasn't good enough all the time. So I was making sure that I was exposing her to other leaders across the business, making sure that they knew that this was her work, that kind of thing. I mean, you know, again, if you're, if you're mad, if you're, if you have KPI. I mean, I always go back to KPIs, because, to me, that's like, it's black and white, it's measurable, right? So on a quarterly basis, you have to see whether or not you achieve things, and then you, well, halfway through the quarter, then you, you know, check if you're on track, and all that kind of thing. But then you're also talking to people. I have one to ones with everybody, so it's like we go through individual projects and we talk about what works, what's not working, that kind of thing. So I think it's36:52  organic, to be honest, but it depends upon the person. And36:56  this is slightly off topic again, but I was thinking about it from something you mentioned a minute ago, in terms of people's perception of marketing. I guess that's quite important when you first go into the role as well. Because if what the stake, like, say, the key stakeholders in the business, what their understanding of what marketing does and doesn't do, can obviously have a dramatic impact on your ability to implement and get, you know, approval and things like that, and move forward your plans. So in the infancy, so I guess it's been more relevant for starting from scratch. But how do you get that, like, buy in, and how do you ensure, do you know what I mean, that that you're all on? How do you market marketing?37:36  Well, it's what we were it was when you were talking about the growth basis question, yeah. And how do you step into a team and get their buy in? But you're not getting just buy in from your team. You're getting buy in from the senior management team and all the other teams. It's37:51  it's letting37:53  everybody know what your deliverables are. What are we working on? So we're not just social media and pretty pictures, like, we are going to repackage all the solutions because they're not, you know, or we're going to do pricing, or we're going to, I don't know, work on, we're going to work with the product team, and we're going to make sure that, like, the everybody knows where our personas are, and that's what our deliverables are, and that's what we're good at. It's, again, it's about, I'm not the best, like, I have to stop myself, but I think it's an internal sales job.38:26  I'm not a38:27  really ego driven type person, but I actually am for the team and the function to make sure everybody knows what we do and how we're doing it.38:34  Have you been in an environment before where there wasn't that understanding and it was a challenge,38:41  yes,38:43  particularly when you're dealing in tech and you're dealing in not very diverse teams, and you have very singular ways of thinking, yeah, yeah. And that's why I'm saying you have to, right from the get go, say this is what I'm going to deliver. Are we in agreement? Do you39:02  think that that assessment should probably start during the interview process as well for somebody, say, for instance, who's looking for the right environment for them to go in to assess the perception of marketing? I think39:14  it's a great question. I'm not sure that they would answer it. I don't know. Do you know what I mean? I don't know. I mean, obviously the person interviewing is looking for a marketing person for a reason. Yeah. And then that's why I always ask, like, what is it you're looking to replace or to do, and what, or what is, what are you hoping to achieve with the marketing position? And I don't mean like, obviously, like, I said it's up to me, as a senior marketing person, to come up with the specific KPIs. But is it revenue? Is it brand? Is it and they get exactly so that you kind of know what you're getting into from the beginning.39:44  Yeah, yeah, and they're pretty much all the questions I wanted to ask on those topics. Is there anything that we haven't discussed, either in relation to these topics, or in relation to or not in relation to these topics that you think would be valuable? To add to the conversation when it comes to building high performance teams.40:04  Diversity, yeah, okay, what's40:07  your How do you foster that and how do you, yeah? How Yeah. How do you, I guess, from a diversity standpoint, how do you ensure, like, diverse perspectives are considered as well?40:20  Well, I'm not so much sure. Like, the thing is, is that okay? Maybe it's the other way. Like, I want to a diverse team, and I want to have bring different viewpoints and all that kind of stuff. But that's easy for me to control, because I'm hiring people, yeah, oftentimes I'm working in a team that's not quite diverse, yeah? And that's, that's the difficulty.40:40  What do you do in that scenario?40:48  I try to understand what's important to or how,40:58  yeah, what's important to other people, the other people. So oftentimes it's from like a leadership team. They're not very diverse.41:06  So41:09  what do they see as valuable? And then try to figure out, how do I provide that value, even though it might be slightly different than what I see as valuable?41:20  Does that make any sense? When you say there, you're referring to the leadership team, or your leadership41:25  teams? It could be the other like, like I said, if you're working in tech, could be 80% of the people in the business are, like coders, for example. So they think very differently than marketing people. Sales people also think very differently than marketing people, just from like, the what we want to achieve, leadership teams potentially. Yeah.41:43  You know, gender,41:44  different diversity, racial diversities, It all brings different points of view. Yeah. So I think it's, it's about navigating in a in a world where marketing sometime can be perceived as just different in particularly in a tech space. And so then, how do we then, yeah, how do we again, it goes back to, how do we promote ourselves within an42:10  organization? Have you42:12  in terms of diversity? Is there anything that you've done in hiring efforts to drive increased diversity in a business or practices that you found useful.42:26  It's always the it's always42:27  the the balance between getting someone who's most qualified for the role and diverse versus diversity. Do you know what I mean? I think it depends on, like I would always value someone who brings a different point of view, different experience than my own, again, because I'm going to learn from it.42:52  Yeah, I mean, you can, you know, as a recruiter, you can go in and say, right, you want again, it's, I don't know. I don't know the I don't know. Yeah,43:01  no, I know. I know you mean, I found that when sending anonymized CVS to clients as part of the interview process, so removing like names, anything that would reveal their gender, their ethnicity, their age, that I don't know exactly the statistics, so I do need to have a look at it, but there was a dramatic increase in the amount of diverse candidates that went through the interview process, whereas, when we sent CVS non blind and, you know, nothing was removed, a lot less diverse candidates would get selected from the initial pool, and less candidates would move through43:39  Interesting Yeah, I'm not surprised that. I'm not surprised. Yeah, I know. I know. I was speaking to a recruiter in Canada, and he was saying to me how they are not they remove the university that universities that people go to, like names as well, but they actually do not show the universities that someone has been to. And I was like, Okay, well, I went to quite a good one. He's like, Yeah, no, it doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. You have to remove44:05  it. Wow, is that just company? What company? Company wide or country wide? I think44:09  it's country wide. He said to me, the reason was because Canada has so many immigrants that if you, let's say, went to the University of Lahore in Pakistan, you shouldn't necessarily be like that. Would then same way you take away all the, like, the blinded, yeah, these same thing that then gives away, you know, where the person's from, as opposed to a local university, for example, yeah,44:38  yeah. And also, I guess there might be, well, the same as I was going to say, there's probably stigmas attached to certain universities and so people, people might get consistently overlooked. But I'm going to look into that and see if that's, that's, that's country wide. That's really interesting. Okay, so I think we pretty much. And it's almost sometimes well concluded all of the things that I wanted to talk talk about. So thank you so much. Like that was really, really, really great, and I really appreciate you taking the time to, like, have almost an hour with me to go through all of these elements, especially unprepared as well. But from everything that you said, I would never have known that you didn't know, like, what I was gonna like talk about before the conversation. So what I'll do? I'll download the transcript, and then I'll once I've concluded the final discussions, next week, I'll loop in with Georgie, she's our head of marketing, and talk about the different ways that we're going to share this. But in terms of, like, the general ideas we've been thinking, obviously, like content on my LinkedIn, like written like blog or something like that, on our on our website as well. But we're in the process of a new website, so it should be launched at actual our website in like six weeks. And then I was thinking of white paper, but then a few people that I spoke to said an ebook might be a bit more digestible and maybe more suitable for this form of content. That's pretty much the key that I was thinking at the moment. But I'm going to loop in with Georgie once I've got it all, and then we'll obviously come back to you in terms of, like, what our ideas are. You might have some input on that or thoughts as well, and then would share anything with you before it went anywhere, basically. So you don't have to worry about suddenly just seeing something. And it's like, you know, between this conversation and seeing something in reality, that that definitely won't happen. But do you have any thoughts at this moment in time in terms of considering, like, the things that we've been discussing, what might work quite well?46:41  Yeah, I think any books a good idea. I think content distributed on LinkedIn. I think like one one pagers as well. Um, you could almost have like one pagers for each of their topics, because the book is also quite long to digest, and like, I would lose interest because I'm just so busy. But if I had like a one pager on each subject, I could just click on those so and then that gives you whatever, six, seven different topics, and, you know, that kind of thing. Yeah, I definitely47:07  was thinking about breaking it down in terms of, like, the topics. So, because I've had people discuss, you know, I mean multiple so there'll be insights to give from each of them. Do you have, or no need to do it today, but, like, in the next couple of weeks, or something. Do you have, if you could think of any, or you've seen any ebooks or one pages that look good? Do you know what I mean, if you if you see any thinking, you know, like, what good looks like, feel free to like, send it over. That would be super helpful.47:34  Pictures, infographics. Yeah, exactly. Most important thing, yeah,47:39  brilliant. Well, thank you so much for taking the time to have a chat. I really, really appreciate it. I'll be back in touch probably after next week, basically, once I've wrapped up all the interviews, and then I'll come back to you. But if you see anything that you think, Oh, this looks interesting, Mike, feel free to send it over.47:59  Sure we'll do thanks.48:02  I'll chat to you very, very soon, and have a good week. You too. Take care.48:06  Take care. Bye.Transcribed by https://otter.ai